**White Paper[^1]: The Rights and Duties that Arise When a Person Receives Bitcoins from an Unknown Source and Without Any Explanation**

**March 2013**

**Gregory Egan, Esq.[^2]**<br>
**Patrick Murck, Esq.[^3]**<br>
**Other Contributors[^4]**

**I. Scenario**

John Doe (“JD”) wakes up one morning and finds that 500 bitcoins were sent to his bitcoin address from an unfamiliar bitcoin address controlled by Unknown Party (“UP”) without any explanation as to why the bitcoin transaction was initiated. JD does not knows who sent the bitcoins or why UP sent them. 

>Unknown Party (“UP”) and for unknown reasons >>> Passes request (utilizing a 
>valid bitcoin private key) to the bitcoin network to debit UP’s paired bitcoin 
>address by 500 BTC and credit a bitcoin address associated with JD with 500 
>bitcoins >>> The blockchain is updated to reflect the transaction >>> The bitcoin 
>network audits the transaction and multiple confirmations are detected

**II. Questions to be Addressed**

A.	Is there any clear legal precedent implicated by these facts?
B.	If no, then what are the rights and duties of both UP and JD? 

**III. Brief Answer**

In a bitcoin transaction the sender (UP in our scenario) bears the ultimate responsibility for sending the correct amount of bitcoins to the correct address. Once the transaction has been confirmed in the blockchain, all right, title and interest is immediately and irrevocably held by the recipient (JD in our scenario). Therefore, JD is the one, true owner of the 500 BTC in our scenario and owes no legal duty or obligation to UP.

**IV. Discussion**

Bitcoin is still a relatively new system and government historically takes time to catch up to technological advancement.[^5] Therefore, it’s no surprise that there is no legal precedent to inform our opinion. In forming our opinion, we will draw on the Uniform Commercial Code (“UCC”), discuss laws governing lost and found property, address concerns regarding criminal or civil liability for theft and the possibility that JD may incur greater legal liability and risk if she returns the bitcoin to the sending address rather than take possession.

**A. Although the UCC does not govern bitcoin transactions, it does provide helpful guidance on how lawmakers may treat the bitcoin network.**

The UCC is a widely adopted attempt by the States to improve general economic conditions through harmonization of commercial and business law across all of the United States. Almost every state has adopted the UCC in some way, shape, or form.[^6]

**i. The UCC does not apply to bitcoin transactions.**

The UCC is broken into articles that address, among other things, sales (Article 2), negotiable instruments (Article 3), bank deposits (Article 4), and funds transfers (Article 4A). However, the bitcoin network does not fit into any of the areas governed by the UCC because, in short,[^7] bitcoins are not money and the bitcoin network does not operate through banks.

**ii. The UCC’s overarching themes provide guidance on how to treat bitcoin transactions.**

Although the UCC does not apply to bitcoin transactions, some of the rules and overarching themes governing legacy financial and payment systems can provide guidance as we analyze the bitcoin financial and payment system. The philosophy underpinning the UCC is assigning responsibility for problematic transactions on the person who was best situated to avoid the problem’s occurrence.[^8] Additionally, some particular rules bring practical effect to the general philosophy, in particular those in Articles 3 and 4.[^9]

**a. The UCC contains a general theme of personal responsibility.**

Whether by mistake or on purpose, when something goes wrong, the problem typically arises by virtue of a person’s (or persons’) acts or failures to act. This underlying concept drives the UCC’s theme of personal responsibility. The UCC’s rules look for the person who was best in a position to prevent the problem’s occurrence and assigns ultimate responsibility there. In other words, the party in the best position to mitigate a given harm shall be the party who must bear that harm.

This theme of personal responsibility can easily be applied to the Scenario discussed in Section I. UP is in full control of the transaction and if anything goes wrong with the transaction, responsibility should fall on UP. JD did not ask or induce UP to send him the bitcoins, fraudulently or otherwise. Nor did JD induce UP to commit an error in executing the transaction. UP, on his own accord, sent the bitcoins to JD’s bitcoin address. UP did not even tell JD that he was sending the bitcoins or give any explanation as to why those bitcoins were sent. JD took no part in the transaction other than receiving the bitcoins without any notice or information. UP was not only the person in the best position to avoid any mistakes or problems; he was the only person in such a position.

However, if UP relied on a third party (unaccounted for in our scenario), such as an online wallet or other service, and there was a transaction error originating from such third party service that resulted in JD receiving the 500 BTC, then UP may have a valid claim for damages against this third party service depending on their contractual relationship. In any event, JD would still have full right and title to the 500 BTC and would bear no responsibility to UP.

**b. The nature of bitcoins resembles bearer paper and the UCC’s rules regarding bearer instruments may shed additional light on how to treat bitcoin transactions.**

Financial instruments (e.g. a check) can be made payable to order or to bearer.[^10]  An instrument is made payable to order if it identifies a particular person (e.g. a check made out to Bill).[^11] If made payable to order, only the person identified on the instrument may negotiate the instrument (e.g. only Bill can cash the check).[^12] An instrument is made payable to bearer if the instrument explicitly states that it is payable to bearer, does not identify a payee, or otherwise indicates that it can be negotiated by whoever possesses it (e.g. a check made out to Cash).[^13] Any person who possesses an instrument made payable to bearer can negotiate the instrument (e.g. anyone can cash in a check made out to cash, even if they find it on the street).[^14] Bearer paper is like cash; whoever possesses it can use or transfer it. 

Although the UCC does not apply to bitcoins, bitcoins share certain important characteristics with bearer paper and the UCC’s rules related to bearer instruments can provide some guidance on how to treat bitcoin transactions. Like bearer instruments, bitcoins bear no payee, or any name at all. Whoever has the bitcoin can use the bitcoin. People may transact in bitcoins and send them to other individuals, however any names involved in a bitcoin transaction remain purely at the transaction’s interaction level and do not attach to the bitcoin itself. For instance, in our scenario, UP sent bitcoins to JD’s bitcoin address. However, the bitcoins themselves do not say they are “payable to JD,” or payable to any person at all. The communication sending the bitcoins directs them to a particular bitcoin address, but the bitcoins themselves are neutral and hold value for whoever possesses them. Analogizing bitcoins to bearer instruments under the UCC would suggest that whoever receives those bitcoins could now use or transfer those bitcoins as they see fit. 

Going one step further, the UCC also protects subsequent holders of instruments when the holder is a holder in due course. A holder in due course is a holder that has taken the instrument in good faith, for value, and with no knowledge of underlying defenses or problems.[^15] A holder in due course takes the instrument free of personal defenses (e.g. defenses arising from an underlying contract) and claims, but remains subject to real defenses (e.g. forgery, “real” fraud, material alterations, illegality, duress, etc.).[^16] Again, the UCC does not apply to bitcoins, but we can still analogize to our scenario within the bitcoin network and see what result the rules would produce. Applying the holder in due course rule to our scenario would shield subsequent purchasers of bitcoins from JD from certain potential problems if they paid value for the bitcoins and took them without knowing of the problem. Thus, even if it turned out that JD somehow fraudulently took the bitcoins from UP,[^17] the subsequent holders in due course could shield themselves from liability and keep the bitcoins they received from JD and JD would remain liable to UP for his fraudulent actions.

**c. Looking at the UCC’s specific rules governing alterations[^18] further illustrates the importance lawmakers place on personal responsibility.**

As previously discussed, the UCC does not apply to bitcoin transactions. However, some of the same general ideas found in specific UCC rules could still provide non-precedential legal guidance for the handling of bitcoin transactions.

The UCC holds the writer of a check responsible for the check as presented to a bank by the bearer of the check, even in a circumstance where the writer did not completely fill in the check.[^19] Thus, if you hand an individual a signed blank check and tell him to fill it out for $50.00 (Fifty Dollars), but that individual instead fills it out for $1,000.00 (One Thousand Dollars) and deposits it, you will have no UCC remedies against that individual or the bank. The bank, with the UCC’s blessing, will hold you fully responsible for the $1,000.00.[^20] This rule exhibits the same familiar concept: the UCC will hold the person best situated to avoid the problem responsible. In this case, the check writer is best situated to avoid the problem by completing the check for $50.00 and not leaving it blank.

The underlying core of personal responsibility found in holding the check writer responsible when leaving information blank on a check is analogous to our scenario here. If an incomplete check results in something other than what the check-writer intended, the check-writer bears the responsibility of those results because he or she was best able to avoid them. Similarly here, if UP intended some result other than JD receiving 500 bitcoins, UP was in the best position to do that by ensuring the information he entered when initiating the transfer was complete and correct. Borrowing the familiar concept of personal responsibility from the UCC, UP should be responsible for the results of his mistakes and any appurtenant harm.

**B. Lost and found rules are unlikely to apply because it is highly unlikely 
a court of law would find the 500 bitcoins sent to JD to be lost 
property.**

Lost and found rules are designed to give the true owner of property a chance to get their property back if he or she inadvertently misplaced or forgot where that property can be located. Generally, state laws will require some kind of notice and a period of time to give the true owner an opportunity to reclaim their property.[^21] If the true owner does not claim the property, the finder may be entitled to claim right in title to the property

However, some property must be lost for lost and found rules to apply. A person may lose their credit card, wallet, or purse if they leave it at a store, restaurant, or bar. However, it is hard to say that a bitcoin, which records each and every transfer, is truly lost when it is sent to someone – even if the wrong person. The person that sent the bitcoin need only look to his or her transactions to see where the bitcoin was sent and, thus, will know where the bitcoin is. Even if we were to assume that the transfer in our scenario was inadvertent, it would still be more akin to a person who deposits funds into the wrong account or has a package delivered to the wrong address than a person  forgetting their credit card at the bar last night.  

Lost and found rules do not apply to our scenario. UP did not lose the 500 bitcoins as if they were a wallet at a bar. UP purposely entered in JD’s bitcoin address information and initiated the the transfer of bitcoins from his bitcoin address to JD’s. He knew upon hitting send that his bitcoins would be irreversibly sent to the address that he inputted, in this case JD’s bitcoin address. UP did not leave his bitcoins inadvertently and without knowledge of where they currently are. In fact, UP knows exactly where the bitcoins are. He need only look at his transaction log and he can see where they are. Thus, JD has no duty to give the UP notice and an opportunity to come reclaim the 500 bitcoins. Instead, JD is the true owner of the 500 bitcoin and owes no responsibility or duty to UP. 

**C. JD should not face criminal theft or larceny charges if he keeps the bitcoins because there is no knowledge or intent to deprive.**

Every state has a criminal theft (or larceny) statute on the books.[^22] To sustain a criminal charge for theft or larceny in many states, the person charged must be shown to have taken another person’s property with the intent to permanently or temporarily deprive the true owner of the right to that property.[^23] Some states may not go as far as requiring a taking and instead use language that will satisfy the theft charge when a defendant “obtains” or even simply “uses” another’s property, but those states still require that the person charged knows he has no right to the property.[^24] Some states may also have an even broader definition of what qualifies as theft. For instance, one definition of theft in Washington State is when a person “appropriate[s] lost or misdelivered property or services of another, or the value thereof, with intent to deprive him or her of such property or services.”[^25] However, the definition of “appropriate lost or misdelivered property,” again requires knowledge by the defendant that the property was lost or misdelivered. Thus, in each case, the person charged must have either an intent to deprive or some knowledge that he has no right to the property. 

In any criminal proceeding, the burden first rests with the state to show that you had the requisite intent or knowledge and that you took all necessary steps to commit the crime. The nature of the bitcoin network proves prohibitively difficult for any prosecutor trying to establish an intent to deprive or the requisite knowledge for criminal charges of theft or larceny. The bitcoin network thrives on anonymity and the strong desire for anonymity frequently leads to situations where bitcoin transactions occur without identifying parties and/or reasons for the transaction. Furthermore, tipping is a common practice in the bitcoin community. People can post their bitcoin address for the public to see, and it is not uncommon for other people who may or may not know the person who published his or her address to send bitcoins to that address as a tip.[^26] With the frequency that anonymous bitcoin transactions occur on the bitcoin network, any prosecutor will face many challenges carrying his or her burden for a theft or larceny charge against a person that keeps bitcoins he or she received from an unknown party and/or without reason.

JD exhibits no intent to deprive UP of the bitcoins and cannot know that he has no right to the bitcoins in our scenario. JD’s keeping of the bitcoins exhibits no intent to deprive UP of the bitcoins because UP sent the bitcoins solely within his own volition, without any request or inducement by JD. Furthermore, JD’s keeping of the bitcoins does not exhibit any knowledge because he has no reason to believe UP did not mean to send him the bitcoins, even if he does not know why UP sent them. As discussed above, there are many reasons UP could have sent those bitcoins to JD. UP sent the bitcoins to JD for some unknown reason, but the receipt of bitcoins for an unknown reason is a common occurrence in the bitcoin network. As such, JD should be able to keep the bitcoins he received without having to fear a criminal conviction for theft or larceny.

**D. Analogizing bitcoin transactions to stock market transactions provides another lens through which to view our scenario and further emphasizes the theme of personal responsibility.**

When a person buys a stock, he or she gets that stock for better or for worse. Caveat emptor (a.k.a. buyer beware) reigns supreme. It does not matter if a purchaser bought a stock by mistake, whether by a typo in the order form or choosing the wrong stock for a particular company. In either case, the purchaser will receive the stock under the agreed purchase terms. If one is to be active in the stock market, they are expected to understand that a purchase is final and irrevocable (except under extraordinary circumstances). A trader in the market is responsible for knowing how the market runs, how to act, operate, and navigate the market, and the risks inherent in its operations. 

Similarly, those active in the bitcoin community understand how the bitcoin network operates. We all know that once we send a bitcoin, it is irrevocably gone from our possession or control. The blockchain is updated and reflects that another person has superior title. As designed, chargebacks do not exist in the bitcoin network and all transactions are final. With knowledge of how the bitcoin network operates, one cannot escape the presence of caveat emptor yet again. However, in this case, “caveat sender” (a.k.a. sender beware) may be more appropriate. Users of the bitcoin network know they must act with care in their handling and transferring of bitcoins. If they err, the result is final. 

Within a context of caveat sender, responsibility for the result in our scenario properly rests with UP. His actions resulted in the transfer of bitcoins to JD. Maybe he intended for those bitcoins to go to JD – we do not know. However, even if he did not, his mistakes were the cause of that result and, under a theory of caveat sender, he must live with those results.

**E. Never just send bitcoins back to someone you don’t know.**

A person that receives bitcoins from an unknown person and without any explanation may be inclined to just assume that they were sent to them by mistake and return the bitcoins to where they came from. Just in case you missed it in the subheading: **DO NOT JUST SEND THE BITCOINS BACK.** If you simply return the bitcoins back, you may become unwittingly complicit in illegal activity.

1.  *Laundering.* The sender of the bitcoins could be trying to “clean” stolen bitcoins and by sending bitcoins back to the sender you could help launder those bitcoins without realizing what you are doing.

2.  *Terrorist financing or other financial involvement with criminal enterprises.* You don’t know the person that sent the bitcoins. Even if you are just returning money to the person, if the bitcoin address winds up being associated with a terrorist organization or other criminal enterprise, you could appear to be funding or financing that organization. Whether or not you are purposely funding a terrorist or otherwise criminal organization, you probably do not want to even have the appearance of doing such activity.

One more time for good measure: **NEVER JUST SEND THE BITCOINS BACK!** As discussed above, the recipient has all rights to the bitcoins received in the scenario we’re discussing and that keeping the bitcoins is fully legal. Even if you want to return the bitcoins out of the good of your heart, **NEVER JUST SEND THE BITCOINS BACK.** You do not want to trigger potential criminal liability or the headaches that surround even the potential criminal charges if no conviction results where criminal liability did not previously exist. 

**IV. Conclusion**

No legal framework specifically governs our scenario, but current legal and non-legal regimes can provide some guidance on what duties and responsibilities are triggered when a person receives bitcoins from an unknown person and without any explanation. When problems with financial transactions arise in those areas governed by the UCC, the UCC’s theme of self-responsibility seeks to hold responsible whoever was best situated to prevent a problem from occurring. In this scenario, the person sending the bitcoins to the unknowing party is not only in the best position to prevent any mistake (e.g. sending to the wrong person, if that is what happened), but he is the only person in any position to prevent that from happening. Application of a caveat sender governance to the bitcoin network, where parties involved in that network know it’s nature of finality in transactions, further emphasizes the notion of personal responsibility and holding the sender responsible. In any event, whatever the receiver decides to do with the bitcoins and whatever actions the receiver decides to take next, he or she should not just return the bitcoins to the bitcoin address from which they came without knowing who owns that bitcoin address and why that person sent the bitcoins. Doing so can unwittingly trigger serious criminal implications that would not arise if the recipient simply kept the bitcoins.

[^1] This document and the information contained herein are provided for informational and educational purposes only and do not constitute legal advice or opinion. The information in this document is intended, but not promised or guaranteed, to be current, complete, or up-to-date, and should in no way be taken as an indication of future results. Transmission of this document or the information herein is not intended to create, and the receipt does not constitute, an attorney-client relationship between sender and receiver. You should not act or rely on any information contained in this document without first seeking the advice of an attorney. This document may contain hyperlinks to other resources on the Internet. These links are provided as citations and aids to help you identify and locate other Internet resources that may be of interest, and are not intended to state or imply that the we sponsor, are affiliated or associated with, or are legally authorized to use any trade name, registered trademark, logo, legal or official seal, or copyrighted symbol that may be reflected in the links.

[^2] Greg is an attorney licensed to practice law in Washington State. His work focuses on helping technology companies navigate the murky legal and regulatory waters they face, including addressing some of the many interesting questions presented by the bitcoin network and the use of bitcoins. He can be reached at [greg@engagelegal.com](mailto:greg@engagelegal.com).

[^3] Patrick is general counsel of The Bitcoin Foundation. He is an attorney licensed to practice law in Virginia and the District of Columbia and has established a recognized expertise on issues arising in virtual economies, alternative payment systems, gamification, and social loyalty and rewards. He can be reached at [patrick@bitcoinfoundation.org](mailto:patrick@bitcoinfoundation.org).

[^4] In the interest of total transparency and community involvement, we've decided to open this white paper up to revisions, edits, additions, and other contributions. Contributors include: 

[^5] For instance, one needs to look no further than the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (“ECPA”). Congress passed ECPA in 1986 and has not been updated the law since. The law was designed with the then-current technology and the then-budding Internet and e-mail usage in mind. Reform discussions have been ongoing for years and the Senate Judiciary Committee finally voted in late November 2012 to pass an amendment that requires warrants for police access to e-mails whether stored online or offline. However, that amendment has not made it through Congress and ECPA still currently exists as written over 25 years ago. *See* Matt Sledge, *ECPA Amendment Passes, as Senate Judiciary Votes to Require Warrant for Email Shopping*, Huffington Post, Nov. 29, 2012, available online at [http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/29/ecpa-electronic-communications-privacy-act_n_2211889.html](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/29/ecpa-electronic-communications-privacy-act_n_2211889.html).

[^6] *See* Uniform Commercial Code Locator, *Legal Information Institute*, Cornell University School of Law, available online at [http://www.law.cornell.edu/uniform/ucc.html](http://www.law.cornell.edu/uniform/ucc.html) (last updated Mar. 15, 2004) (providing a table that links to state statutes reflecting articles of the UCC).

[^7] The longer explanation:
	- *Article 2*: Sales. Section [2-102](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/2/article2.htm#s2-102) says that Article 2 governs certain transactions in goods, which are defined in section [2-103(1)(k)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/2/article2.htm#s2-103) as “all things that are movable at the time of identification to a contract for sale.” However, the definition of goods explicitly excludes information. Bitcoins are strings of coded information and, thus, do not fall within the bounds of Article 2.
	- *Article 3*: Negotiable Instruments. Section [3-102(a)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-102) says that Article 3 applies to negotiable instruments, which section [3-104(a)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-104) defines as “an unconditional promise or order to pay a fixed amount of money . . . if [certain other requirements are met]” (emphasis added). Bitcoin transactions do not fit within these parameters. Both promise and order are specifically defined terms in the UCC, and both, by definition, require an instruction or undertaking to pay money. However, bitcoins are not money, as defined by the UCC. Section [1-201(b)(24)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/1/article1.htm#s1-201) of the UCC defines money as “a medium of exchange currently authorized or adopted by a domestic or foreign government[.]” Bitcoins are neither authorized nor adopted by any government, and thus fall outside this definition of money.
	- *Article 4*: Bank Deposit. Article 4 refers to items, which again deal with the UCC-defined money.  Bitcoin is not money. Further, Article 4 really focuses on the relationships between customers and banks. Section [4-105(1)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/4/article4.htm#s4-105) defines a bank as a “person engaged in the business of banking.” There are no banks in the bitcoin network.
	- *Article 4A*: Funds Transfers. Section [4A-102](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/4A/article4A.htm#4A-102) says that Article 4A applies to fund transfers, which section [4A-104(a)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/4A/article4A.htm#4A-104) defines as a “series of transactions beginning with the originator’s payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order.” However, the definition of a payment order in [4A-103(a)(1)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/4A/article4A.htm#4A-103) requires involvement of a bank. Again, there are no banks in the bitcoin network. 

[^8] This theme of personal responsibility runs throughout the UCC. *See e.g.* § 3-416 (creating certain warranties that each person makes by virtue of passing along a check and providing for recovery of damages by a person who took a bad check in good faith); § 3-417 (creating certain warranties that are made by each person that presents a check to a bank for collection, and any prior transferors of that check, as well as providing for recovery of damages against the warrantor by a bank paying on a bad check); §3-404(d) (providing for recovery against a person paying on an instrument induced by an imposter or fictitious payee if the person paying “fail[ed] to exercise ordinary care in paying or taking the instrument and that failure substantially contributes to loss resulting from payment of the instrument”); 3-407(c) (Holding a person fully responsible for a check as it is presented to a bank if they failed to fully fill in the check because that person was in the best position to fully complete the check when they wrote it and avoid the problem); 4-406 (imposes a duty on bank customers to review their bank statements and report any problems within a reasonable time).

[^9] Articles 3 and 4 describe how a given transaction should be handled and the extent of each party’s duties and obligations to one another.

[^10] *See* UCC [§ 3-109](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-109).

[^11] *Id.* at [§ 3-109(b)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-109).

[^12] *Id.* at [§ 3-201(b)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-201).

[^13] *Id.* at [§ 3-109(a)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-109).

[^14] *Id.* at [§ 3-102(a)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-102).

[^15] *Id.* at [§ 3-302](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-302).

[^16] *Id.* at [§ 3-305(b)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-305).

[^17] Remember, though, our scenario presumes that JD did not induce, fraudulently or otherwise, UP to send him the bitcoins. He just received them with no warning or explanation.

[^18] UCC [§ 3-407](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-407).

[^19] *Id.* at [§ 3-407(c)](http://www.law.cornell.edu/ucc/3/article3.htm#s3-407).

[^20] This discussion is strictly within the confines of the UCC and does not address any potential remedies (e.g. contract law, tort law, etc.).

[^21] *See e.g.* [Cal. Civ. Code §§ 2080-2080.10](http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/cgi-bin/displaycode?section=civ&group=02001-03000&file=2080-2080.10). In California, when a person finds lost property and takes charge of it, the finder becomes a depositary for the owner and subject to all such rights & obligations. *Id.* at § 2080. The finder also must notify the owner, if known. *Id.* If the owner is not known and the property is valued over $100, the finder is to turn the property over to police within a reasonable time. *Id.* at § 2080.1.  The police must then notify the owner, if the owner’s identity is reasonably ascertainable. *Id.* at §2080.1(a). If the owner appears within 90 days and proves ownership & pays all applicable charges (storage fees, etc.), the police return the property to the owner. *Id.* at § 2080.2. If the property’s value is $250 or more and no owner appears within 90 days after the police receive the property, the police then publish notice at least once in a newspaper of general circulation. *Id.* at § 2080.3(a). If the owner still does not show up after seven days following publication of that notice, the finder may then take right in title to the property if he or she pays all fees for the publication. *Id.* This discussion applies only to California and the specifics will vary by state. If you believe you’ve found a lost item, you should consult a local attorney to get a better understanding as to the particular requirements in your state. Even if you live in California, a California attorney should be consulted for your particular situation.

[^22] Some states may also allow for additional liability through civil theft statutes. For instance, Florida allows for a civil action against a defendant found guilty of violating its theft statute. *See e.g.* [Fla. Stat. § 772.11](http://www.leg.state.fl.us/statutes/index.cfm?App_mode=Display_Statute&Search_String=&URL=0700-0799/0772/Sections/0772.11.html) (providing treble damages in a civil action by a victim of theft against the thief when the victim can show by clear and convincing evidence that the thief violated Florida’s theft statutes).

[^23] *See e.g.* [Fla. Stat. § 812.014(1)](http://www.leg.state.fl.us/statutes/index.cfm?App_mode=Display_Statute&Search_String=&URL=0800-0899/0812/Sections/0812.014.html) (“. . . with intent to . . .  deprive the other person of the right to the property . . . [or] appropriate the property to his or her use . . .”); [Md. Code, Crim. Law § 7-104(a)](http://mgaleg.maryland.gov/webmga/frmStatutesText.aspx?article=gcr&section=7-104&ext=html&session=2013RS&tab=subject5) (“. . . intends to deprive the owner of the property; willfully or knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in a manner that deprives the owner of the property; or uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing the use, concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner of the property.”). Some states may not explicitly require an intent to deprive, but inherent in their statutory language is a similar criminal intent of keeping an item for themselves without permission of the true owner. *See e.g.* [720 Ill. Comp. Stat. § 5/16-1(a)(1)](http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/ilcs/fulltext.asp?DocName=072000050K16-1) (“A person commits theft when he or she knowingly obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner . . .”).

[^24] *See e.g.* [Fla. Stat. § 812.014(1)](http://www.leg.state.fl.us/statutes/index.cfm?App_mode=Display_Statute&Search_String=&URL=0800-0899/0812/Sections/0812.014.html) (“A person commits theft if he or she knowingly obtains or uses, or endeavors to obtain or use, the property of another . . .”); [720 Ill. Comp. Stat. § 5/16-1(a)(1)](http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/ilcs/fulltext.asp?DocName=072000050K16-1) (“A person commits theft when he or she knowingly obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner . . .”); [Md. Code, Crim. Law § 7-104(a)](http://mgaleg.maryland.gov/webmga/frmStatutesText.aspx?article=gcr&section=7-104&ext=html&session=2013RS&tab=subject5) (“A person may not willfully or knowingly obtain or exert unauthorized control over property . . .”).

[^25] [RCW 9a.56.020(1)(c)](http://apps.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=9a.56.020). Washington defines “[a]ppropriate lost or misdelivered property or services as “obtaining or exerting control over the property or services of another which the actor knows to have been lost or mislaid, or to have been delivered under a mistake as to identity of the recipient or as to the nature or amount of the property.” [RCW 9A.56.010(2)](http://apps.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=9A.56.010).

[^26] People tip for a wide variety of reasons in the bitcoin community. For instance, an individual may tip another person’s published bitcoin address because they found a message board or blog post helpful, funny, or otherwise enjoyable. Similarly, someone may also tip another person’s bitcoin address because they share a common belief in a cause that person champions. There’s no lack of reasons why one person may tip another person’s bitcoin address. It can be done for any rhyme or reason, or none at all.





